after months of bombardment and
suffering the people of Gaza have been
left with new
indignities the situation is very dire
and the place is not suitable for living
at all no toilets no water no sanitation
facilities just making it very difficult
one toilet and one water tank for 5,000
displaced individuals people are in
overcrowded spaces and this has led to a
spread of infectious diseases that are
very alien to us even the health
Ministry cannot determine what these
diseases are
the lack of showers and handwashing
Facilities means maintaining a proper
hygiene is nearly impossible staging
water and poor Waste Management help a
breed diseases carrying mosquitoes and
flies the number of those with malaria
dingy fever and other illness is rising
diseases such as Hepatitis A and other
infectious diseases are spreading
quickly vomiting and diarrhea are among
the most widespread diseases among
children Israel's war on Gaza is also
straining the management of medical
waste adequate sanitation and the supply
of a clean medical supply
and there is no sanitation or Waste
Management when you live in the street
there's no sanitation tools or equipment
to help tools are simple as a broom or
sweepers are not available if they are
available they are very expensive for 7
months we've had no work or salary and
we can't afford buying these Necessities
it's not just unsanitary conditions here
that are created health problem sickness
stress and the trauma of the conflict
mean and anxiety depression and
post-traumatic stress disorder are
building into a mental health nightmare
for the people of
Gaza Israel's intense bombing campaign
has eliminated nearly all social
services and healthc Care Facilities
recovery will need humanitarian Aid
organizations local authorities and
international actors to work together
sanitation waste management and
Healthcare including mental health
treatment are all needed
immediately clean water would be a start
hany Mahmud Al jazer Gaza
Palestine make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaer